Compute: pay for Compute time 
Storage: pay for data stored in cloud. 
Data tranfer: Data tramfor IN is free Data transfor OUT is metered.


Aws Global infrastructure

Aws Regions
Aws Availability Zones
Aws Data Centers
Aws edge Locations
Aws region

Why Choose a region?

Region: Where we are going to deploy our application or use services from?
Compliance: India government asking to have data in india only
proximity: Users or Customers of your application belong to a region then Latency in reduced if we deploy there

Availability zone:

Each region has multiple availability

Zones (3to 6)

Aws Region Sydney: Ap-Southeast-2

has

3 Availability

Southeast

A

26

Seperate from each

- Not all region. feruias will be available in a To Check use Region table.

Shared Responsibility Model:

Customer Responsibility for Security IN the Cloud.

Aws: Responsibility for Security Of the Cloud.

Customer data, 1 Dentity & Access irgint, firewal, networking Configuration, diant Side encryption, authentication, Networking traffic protection etc

Softrare, Compute, Storage, DB, Regions, Edge Location etc

IAM is a giche Service
TAM: Edentity & Access mariagerat,

User: people within your organisation. Groups: Contains only users, to multiple groups. A user Com

Rales: pdicies/permissions to given to Services Policies: users or groups can be avigmed JSON documents called policies (ar permissions to access Services.

The User Created with IAM Can login in 1 AM User Login and will be Misible as

username@root account on

like

changudi @ Tiger arabipes.

AWS Console

1 AM policies inheritance :-

lue attach a of policy to a group then all its members have Same policy.

I Am policy Structure -

403

© Version; policy language version. Id: Identifier for the policy (optional)

Statement Statements

Effect: allows or denics. principal: To which acc/user/sole allows or denies. D

this policy is applying to Actions list of actions this policy

Resource; list of resources this policy is qplied to

Am password policy for sccurity of accounts steps like: upper alphanumeric, mement reuse cte & MFA (Google Auth)
3 diff ways to

acas AWS

via Console (pamoord + MFA) I winth CLI (protected by Access kaps) AWS Guia terminal ma SDA (protected by Access keys)

→ALOS CLI open Source

(https://github.com/aws/aws-CLI

→ Aws SDX Can be cumbedded with application

AWS CLI is built on AWS SDK for python Aws Sole Com interact with AWS programmatically

Sustalling

-

> aws

Carl Waps-

150 cinzip awselive.zip

Sudo laws/install.

--Version.

AWS

Cloudshell Not

available in all

regions. Free to use

It is a terminal in the cloud of aws

in Aws Console.

IAM Roles:- Just like policies to users, roles are to Aws Services

YAM Security Tools

IAM Credentials Report द report listing all users their credential Status

1 AM Access advisor

My shows service permissions granted to a user and when ore

IAM Best practices.

Don't use root account except al signups. users to group, policies to groups.

→ Strong password + MFA.

- Never share access keys.

Shared Responsibility Model of IAM

Summary:

Users: Mapped to physical wer

1: Contains users only Grays

policies: JSON document that outlines permissions

Stray Security? MFA + password

ukoll

Audit:

1AM Creditting Reports & IAM Access advisor

->
-Billing

Name>

management

Bills: Shows charges for Various Senters, free tiers Shows how much we und free tier

Budgets We Can set alerts.

EC2 Basics: Pay per Elastic Compute ner second.. cloud. → To Bootstrap over instances we use User data

from additional Configuration__. Bootstrap launching Commands when mochine ->

Stats user data run outh root user, use Sudo. ->

→ private IPv4 in ured to from it internally. Communicate with &

we stop & restart public IP of it may change private IP Stays the Same

Console 7

CC2 instances.info

in aws cloud.

Shows present

Security groups: firewall: by they contain only allow video rules

→ fear if inbound rules has our ip address then only Time out occurs. we Coun access EC2 instance, else

→ Sec Group Can be attached to multiple ECZ → locked down to a region / VPC combination

if Timeout SG issue.

of Connection refused → apply error | Ecz. not launched.

→ By default: All in bound blaked All out bound authorized.

used intonces

L

Regardless of ip of our instances, if we attach the SG attached to atc2 we acass it.

ie if EC2-A has SGI in inbound SGI is attached to EC2-B then

and

Ec2 +B can access EC2-A regardless of (p. that we should have specified in inbound.

PORTS:

SSH

12122

80

(Secure Shell)

https

43

SPTP SMTP

21 (file transfer protocol) 22 upload files uring 554

3389

into a Windows

instance)

Remote

SS#

cam publici

password

or

-i apem ecz publicip

ecz-user@

Sch

windows download putty & putty kay gan

Clarge ppm topple file in keygen

Hygen > load > Sowe as privatilay

> •ppk file

putty & Connect

IAM role for EC2

Roles are policies/permissions for Services

- So if we attach Amreadacess to a EC2 instance then we can see the list of wers in the EC2 iam list-users.


[62 instamas purchasing of tions

201

(6) on demand instances's predictable pricing Reserved (13 years) & long} Workloads. (not physical Saving plans: commited to amount

later Reserud

Ⓒ spot instances & short workleed, cheap. 90/doct Dedicated Hosts: book an entire physical Sexsur,

expensive

Dedicated here no other Customers will

Fustances.

Share

your Capacity reservations: Capacity pexruered in any AZ mance (not played) wyly Prun in a Vpc on hardware dedicated to a Customer

EC2 Sustance Storage:-

like. network USB pendrive

EBS: Elastic Block Store. is a network drive You can they ran. attach to 10 to your instances while

Allows instances to persist data, even after termination

> Can be mounted to one instance at a time. ~ Bound to specific availability Zone

a

n

2

s

→ EBS can be moved to other zones with

We can delete on termination of EC2 by EBS Volume ^ checking the box.

EBS multiattach feature for 10, and ioz Volumes in out of scope.

→ we can attach multiple EBS to a instance.

EBS-Snapshots-

→ Ballcup of aEBS → can be used to restore a ERSvolume in a same or diff availability zone & attach it to a EC2.

→ it takes some time upto 3 days to restore it

we delete snapshot it will be in recycle bin for 1 year

AMI Overview:

Amazon Machine image.

Customized EC2 instance, can be built for a Specific region.

- we com build our own AMI -) can be bought in Amazon marketplace-

AMI image Say we need to create a day image f a EC2 at any point of time to use it later → EC2 intance Select > image & templates >

Greate image name of options selections.

→ while launching instances we can un that image to AM!

Ecz image Builder: Automate Creation of VM or Container images unlike

EC2 image Boulder Builder EC2 instan New Am1 →→ TestEC2 intance

Very Lary

to build our own.

image of Am

which we can use to build a EC2 intance EC2 Eustance Stone EBS is limited performance

q need high performace hardware disk, we use EC2 instance Store which has

Potter 1/0 performance

They are not persistant storage, gone if torminated-

(i) Good for buffer/cache/ temp contut

short term

EFS- Elastic File System

usage for longterm

EBS

(xcan be mounted on 100s of EC2 at a time

EFS works only with Linux EC2 & also for multi-AZ.

t

AM)

stance

EBS VS EFS

-> EFS can be and as a shared file System accus muli-AL where as EBS only in 1 AZ, 1 EC2 Connected Greate Snapshot 2 EFS Infrequent 84 une it in another AZ Acars (EPSIA) Same as Efs but less cost as we

use it infrequently. We need to set

lifecycle policy to move file from EFS to EFS 1A if they are not used frequently

Shared Responsibily Replication of deta

- Selting backup / encuphin Es Aws Resp or faully hardware

Amazon FSx

managed service which gets 3rd party high-performance file Systems on Aws.

Amagon PS for Windows file Server

Seppo A fully managed, highly, reliable, and scalable Windows native shared fs.

Amogon FSix for Lustre (for liver fs). Is A fully managed, high-performace, scabble

file storage for ligh performance Computay (Ape)

Elastic load balancing Horizontal Scalability.

Vertical Scalability: Increasing Size/Storage a Same/single, instance / service-

for EC2:

from 12. nano

0.5G of RAM, 1 epo

0124b/meld -12TB of RAM, 648Cp

Load balancer:

→ Publicly visible. - Behind maintains multiple services.

4 kinds of LB ( Application (http/https)

for high performance traffic

Larger 7 •Network LB (TCP) Lagny

for: TCP, UDP, ATLS Gateway LB( dayer 2)

Classic load balaar Ly will be remind

Voutes traffic to firewell (for intrusion detectin)

pe

Auto scaling group

load on websites & apples can change → can scale out to match increased load. - Can scale in to match decreased load

Strategies: 1. Manual Scaling

2. Dynamic scaling

3 predictive scaling d

Amazon 53 : Bucket 9 Enfinitaly scaling Storage unique name I Every fill has a key- full path is

S3: //my-bucket/ my file. bet.

→ 53 eventhough given a global view are created in a AWS region.

e

user-based: IAM policies: which user can access.

Resource bands -Bucal polices: how to make $3.

Buckets public.

• Object Access Control List (ACL) Buclat Accus Control List (ACL)

→ Any one Com access 53 object if user 1 AM permissions Allow it

resource policy Allows it.

and there's no explicit DENY.

policies are JSON Based.

- for public access: change Braket pelicans be

by going to permitions in bucket & unticl

Block all public acass

53-Versining

We com Version files in 53, enabled at bucket -> Same Overwrite will create ternin.

→ for deletion, even if we select Object and delete the delete marker is set (ver)

which makes it a version and if we delete that too file is permanently deleted.

S3 Replication

SCRR: Gross Region Rep. SRR: Same

→ first, evable versioning in Source & destinations - copy happens asynchrononly.

Go to management of 53 Budut & set replication rules.

$3

53 Storage classes

633 Standard: normal 116 acess: Lover Cost

опредрасст One gone infreq: Single AZ

Glacier: for backup fardheine, fast Glacier flexible little slow, same as Glaan.

53 intelligt tienig! for Small monthly monitorry.

no retrieval charge in las

be → Storage Classes Can set to u objed in bucket & can be charged are to change Over time

Glacia deep archive, cost effective, for archive data. $3 encryption

no encryption.

Sewer Side encryption (Server everypts file after receiving it)

Client side encryption (client encrypts before uploading it)
